This app demonstrates Quuppa Tag functionality. The app emits BLE advertising packets but doesn't do anything particularly useful without Quuppa Intelligent Locating System, a high-accuracy, low latency RTLS. Please report bugs (at https://github.com/quuppalabs/demo-android-quuppa-tag) in case the app doesn't work with some specific device and/or newer versions of Android. However, we are not taking feature requests for this app as it's only meant to demonstrate the functionality.

This *demo* app partially implements Quuppa V1 tag protocol. Quuppa Tags can be tracked in Quuppa Intelligent Locating System but the accuracy partially depends on the phone's BLE antenna so your mileage may vary. Quuppa V3 tag protocol provides secure tag IDs and encrypted air interface. If you are interested in those features, please contact Quuppa via https://www.quuppa.com/contact-us/ since secure key management in Android requires server side support, available through our enterprise offering.

The android-quuppa-taglib (https://github.com/quuppalabs/android-quuppa-taglib) that this app uses is primarily meant to be included in your own Android application. The taglib implements a full Android frontend service and once turned on, it will run continuously, even in the background or after reboots. The service also uses the device's accelerometer to determine whether the tag (device) is moving or not.

The service holds a partial wake lock (and the app asks to disable battery optimizations to allow running indefinitely in the background) However, in my testing over several weeks with a relative modern Android 15/OnePlus 12R, battery usage caused by the Quuppa Tag service was around 0.1% of the overall battery consumption with light usage of other apps. If you use your device for work (if e.g. the device is a handheld scanner) and the screen is on frequently, the battery consumption of the Quuppa Tag service is negligible. The app & the library has been extensively tested on many Android versions ranging from 10 to 16, as well as various different devices, including Google Pixel 7/4a, Samsung Galaxy A14/Note 10+, DataLogic Scorpio X5 etc. - Kalle Korhonen, Chief Product Officer

Copyright 2025 Quuppa Oy